---
layout: post 
title: Roger Angel
---

> Responding to a [reddit writing prompt](http://www.reddit.com/r/WritingPrompts/comments/2urosb/wp_describe_the_thoughts_of_the_angel_of_death_on/)

Roger Angel works hard. He knows his tools. His fingers fly across the screen
of the smartphone with its extra large external battery pack and bar code
reader, deftly processing customers at truly remarkable rates.

Management comes by every now and again to commend him.

"I'm very pleased with you," Management says. "I just love my job," Roger
responds.

Management smiles at him, and pounds his back jovially.

Every once in a while, when there's a new product release, Management will come
by with some helpers-- they re-arrange the shop, put up posters selling the new
product, and assist in processing once the customers start coming in.

They haven't really needed to come by in ages. The last time was during the a
great marketing campaign for the company's flashiest product, War. Roger had
never seen such numbers in the shop, and it stirred his heart to see how
efficiently they whirred through the waiting crowd, helping each customer
cheerfully, congenially chatting while they helped them to their final
purchase.

The success of War during that time had been foreseen to some degree. The wonks
Management employed to help predict the market were able to catch the signs,
the humiliation of a major power at the end of the last conflict enabling the
rise to power of a small, petty, militaristic man. The nicely coincident
invention of new technologies which revolutionized the ways Roger's Company's
products could be used. The marketing guys he doesn't trust used the word
"synergize" overabundantly during that era.

Management had seen fit to remodel before hand, even on top of the expansion
they had made before the preceding great campaign, which was branded The Great
War, and shrouded in all kinds of militaristic kitsch, tales of honor, etc.
Roger still had a soft spot in his heart for the old posters from that
campaign: The man in the Officer's Cap wearing the magnificent mustache, points
his finger at the viewer; "Your country needs you," reads the caption. It must
have paid off. That was a time of record profits. Roger got a bonus at the end
of it.

They hadn't had any years like that in an awful long time. Some of the business
wonks were starting to re-examine the positioning of War as the jewel in the
crown, so to speak. The emergence of a single super power dramatically weakened
its position in the market, and there were other, cleverer products that,
though last truly successful centuries ago, were regaining their luster.
Disease, always a work horse for the company, seemed to be finding ever more
interesting applications-- an interconnected world made certain product lines
irresistible. The joke about Disease had always been that with the right
marketing and sales model, almost everyone could get one; the irony being that
it never seemed to work out that way.

The shop, in it's latest incarnation is one enormous enclosure. It's
rectangular, with one solid wall, a glass roof, and glass walls on three sides.
Light and airy, Roger thinks it's ripping off the Apple store, a popular
past-time among high-end retailers these days.

It's still morning. Bright sunshine shines through the shops glass walls, but
he's reading a newspaper and drinking coffee under the halogen lights of the
back office. He sips his coffee, and looks at his watch, sighs. An hour to
opening.

Just then his phone rings. It's Jerry, with logistics and provisioning:

"Hey Roger, looks like we've got a some merchandise coming in last minute to
you, and a whole lot of it!" Jerry says.

"Alright," says Roger, "I hadn't heard about this, what's in the shipment?"

"I'm not entirely sure myself, the marketing material had something to do with
smashing atoms. The boys who brought it in seemed to think it'd fly off the
shelf-- hard to believe, since it just came in in the middle of the night last
night, and that's the first anybody's heard of supply, let alone demand.
Anyhow, some of my buddies in logistics have been up all night trying to figure
out how to get the merchandise from warehouse to distribution center to retail.
Should be there in twenty minutes or so."

Roger whistled, drained the last of his coffee and went to the loading doc to
oversee the arrival.

When it arrives he knows this is big. The shipment is an 18 wheeler, looking
awkward in the little loading dock, full of around thirty thousand units. Each
unit bears a smart logo: three yellow triangles inscribed in a circle, arranged
symmetrically. Once the stocking is done, he checks his watch and sees it is
time to open for the day.

He walks to the sales floor, and can already see the people in a snaking line
around the block.

"Oh boy," he sighs to himself. He looks at his sales team, all recently
arrived, takes a deep breath, and opens the door.

The people flood in, more than he imagined could fit in the store, all of them
clamoring and toying with the new kit-- Some of them are trying on Radiation, a
peculiar intersection of War and Disease nobody thought would do much. Others
are all about Fiery Explosion with it's dramatic, jagged red and orange
splashes of color. The patient, or perhaps just budget conscious seem curiously
attracted to futures for Crop Failure, Starvation. Even Suicide is selling
well. The best seller, by far, is Fire Storm in the City, firmly in War's
product line.

None of this makes sense to Roger. Handgun is hardly budging. Malaria, usually
a strong seller, isn't moving at all. In the off seconds he gets between
helping customers fit themselves into their new burns, radiation poisoning, or
shrapnel, he wonders if he should call up the guys in charge of keeping
Mosquitos healthy and at large, just to see what's going on over there. It's
hard to see how one aging kleptocracy, barely able to feed its people (this is
the story he gleaned from the truck driver), was able to spike so much demand
for such an unusual combination of products.

He's glad the shipment came in time for opening this morning, but as he notes
what's selling and how much, he realizes they won't have enough to satisfy the
crowd still snaking down the block. It's all mercilessly computerized-- you
don't get to be big like this without certain efficiencies of process, but he
still feels its prudent to call Jerry himself to make sure he knows what's
coming.

He grows weary as the day wears on. Ashen snow flurries down from oddly shaped
clouds. A sheet of inky rain blankets the roof, and he puts a call in to
maintenance to get it cleared off. He knows how important it is to keep up
appearances.

He barely breaks for lunch, swigs another coffee and munches a power bar before
wading back in to help with the crowds. Staff had been moving fast all morning
and still they come. He's running low on inventory, and his people are growing
tired.

He puts in two hours of overtime once the next shift leader comes in, finally
getting off at seven. He walks home, shoving his way through customers still
eager for Wars popular sequel, Desolation. It's dark unusually early, and very
cold for spring. He gets home, microwaves a tv dinner, props up his legs on the
easy boy and eats.

After dinner, it occurs to him that should the rates he saw today continue much
longer, they might finally realize the old company dream of bringing a product
to every person alive. Even those they don't reach today will surely buy a
budget product like Suicide as they see all their friends buy in! With this
happy thought, he lies his head down to his rest.

